# iRelated

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/2015_San_Bernardino_attack

https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/2714001/SB-Shooter-Order-Compelling-Apple-Asst-iPhone.pdf

https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zyxtarmo/isecrelated/master/screen-shot-2016-02-16-at-11-14-30-pm.png

https://www.apple.com/business/docs/iOS_Security_Guide.pdf [iPhone 5c = A6 (no Secure Enclave as hardware)]


In today's digital world, the "key" to an encrypted system is a piece of information that unlocks the data, and it is only as secure as the protections around it. Once the information is known, or a way to bypass the code is revealed, the encryption can be defeated by anyone with that knowledge. [https://www.apple.com/customer-letter/]

Lorena Trinberg:
The 2013 Report of the Special Rapporteur on the promotion and
protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression pointed out
that security and anonymity of communication are already undermined by
certain national law and that intrusive acts threaten the democratic
foundation. The Special Rapporteur therefore strongly recommends States to
not interfere with the use of encryption and underlines that States should
not compel the provision of encryption keys. Even though the FBI is not
asking Apple to directly decrypt the phone, it is obvious that their request
to rewrite the software to make it possible to guess potential passwords
automatically, leads to the same outcome.

However, the reckless limitation of the scope of the above mentioned human
rights needs to be avoided. Therefore, the assessment of whether human
rights can be limited requires balancing out the interests and taking in
particular into consideration the rule of necessity and proportionality. In
this case, the judge took the decision that the interest of the FBI to gain
information on how the San Bernardino shooters operated is considered to be
of higher value than the interest to keep communication information limited
of access to just a certain group of (potentially criminal) individuals. 

As long as this decision has only impact on this specific case, the granted
court order is legally well acceptable. But there are certain facts that
make not only a lawyer shiver. 

The U.S. legal system is based on case law. Fact is that this case would
cause a precedent. Consequently, it would open the door for many similar
cases to be dealt with in the same way as an unknown number of smartphones
could not be decrypted by law enforcement authorities yet. In addition, the
required software to be developed would work on any phone of the same type.
Knowing this, more laws, in particular data protection laws might be
breached afterwards once mighty governments feel tempted to use this
software to access user data for more than law enforcement purposes. After
all, it remains to be seen what legal developments on global level will
follow upon this case."

http://dspace.mit.edu/bitstream/handle/1721.1/97690/MIT-CSAIL-TR-2015-026.pdf?sequence=1

